---
title: “Remember Lot’s Wife” - Luke 17:32
draft: false
tags:
  - blog
  - entry
---
*Written on September 07, 2024*

> [!warning] Quick Note
> I read a lot of *biblical text* although I am not religious. I just find them *facinating*, and you can learn *a lot* of lessons from them even if you don’t believe.

I have been *doom-scrolling* on *Facebook* after my last shift from work when I passed through a reel showcasing a preacher discuss about this verse. The premise is that *amongst the 137 women* mentioned in the Bible, Jesus tells us to remember *only one*, which is **Lot’s wife**.

> [!quote] **Genesis 19:16-17**
> Lot was dragging his feet. The men grabbed Lot’s arm, and the arms of his wife and daughters—GOD was so merciful to them!—and dragged them to safety outside the city. When they had them outside, Lot was told, “Now run for your life! Don’t look back! Don’t stop anywhere on the plain—run for the hills or you’ll be swept away.”

Most of us who have *some* Christian knowledge will remember Lot’s wife from the punishment of *Sodom and Gamorrah*. The angels told Lot’s family to *not look back* while the smiting is happening and to *run* for their lives. In older traditions, *to look back* is not just interpreted as just the act of looking back, but to do it *with longing*. Lot’s wife *looked back* and was turned to a *pillar of salt*.

> [!quote] **Genesis 19:26**
> But Lot’s wife looked back, and she became a pillar of salt.

So what this basically means is that whenever *we move past* something that we are not meant to *stay* in, do not long to be back. All of those *fond* memories are just **memories** now. We’ve been there already, and we are out *for a reason*. Do we understand the reason *right now*? Maybe not, but one day *we will*.

Personally, I have an experience *close to heart* with this. I have just recently broken up with my partner after four years. But, this was our *second* break-up. The first time, I have decided to break up with her because I did not feel *appreciated* in our relationship. I felt that whatever I do, she’d always found a reason *why* it will not work in the long run. It broke my heart every time, because I *gave* what I *could* do at that time to make her *contented*, but I still feel that I was *lacking* for her. So, I decided to move on with my life and to stop fighting *for* someone that should have been fighting *with* me.

But, I was young and naive, after about six weeks, the feeling of *longing* and *sadness* took over me. I decided to *chase after her* again. To cut the long story short, we got back together. Things felt *different*. She placed *more effort* and thought for me and our relationship. *It felt great*. I felt *appreciated*. It felt like *I was right to go back*. But then, months later, she started avoiding me. I tried to be understanding since she was a few months away from graduating that time, but something *felt off*.

I did not want to assume anything, so I asked her what is happening. And the truth came up. She was not just busy with school and life, she was *tired*. Specifically, she was tired of *maintaining* a relationship. She wanted me to move on without her. She thinks both of us will be better off. She thinks that I deserved to have a lot better than what she can give. So we broke up *again*. And this time, it is permanent.

At first, I was *angry*. It all felt *unfair*. I have spent years, mostly the one *giving*, and she can’t even keep up making *even* efforts for months? I wanted to be mad – mad at her, but I can’t. I was just left mad at myself for *not listening and learning*. Some part of me already knew it would end that way, but the *longing* kept me hopeful. The *fear of losing her* won over the pride of winning *something else*.

The problem about longing and going back is **not** that *other people* don’t change – because people *can*. The problem is maybe *we* don’t. Maybe *after all* the lessons from the hardships, we are *still the same*. We experienced, but did not learn. We heard, but did not listen. We *went back* because we are still the same, and that tells us more about *who we are* than what we are coming back to.